Pacemakers are used to correct
different problems in the heart,
but mostly they are used to correct
a slow or irregular heartbeat.
The pacemaker is a small device
implanted in the chest
to monitor and correct the heart's rhythm.
The doctor begins
by inserting one or two very thin wires,
called "leads," into a vein under the collarbone.
The leads are fed through the vein
and into the heart.
Leads may be attached to either the top
or bottom of the heart, or both.
The leads are connected to the pacing device,
and the device is implanted under the skin.
If a heart rate is too slow, or irregular,
the pacemaker will send electrical impulses
through the leads to the heart,
in order to reset the heartbeat
to a normal pace.